Installed Python 3.10. I installed it in a custom mode because I have another Python version in my computer due to ArcGIS (Python 2.6)
To check version of python simply open cmd and type this: python --version   You can be in any address no need to change directory. 

To open python simply type: python    no need to change directory. 

To exit from python simply type: exit()

To know where your python is saved in your local computer just type: where python   no need to change directory. 

I uninstalled the stand alone Python that I installed (3.10) because I found out that Anaconda installs Python automatically along with Jupyter.

Then I installed Anaconda 3. Anaconda 3 has Python 3.9

open anaconda prompt in start 

you'll see 
(base) C:\Users\Beth> 

type:

python --version   to know what python version you have 

conda info         to know what conda version you have

conda list         to know the packages you have 

conda install numpy     if you want to install any of the packages in the list. This is an example. Numpy is a package in python and in Anaconda. 
                        I installed this.

jupyter notebook        it will give you a link which you can open in your browser to open the GUI of jupyter
                        Remember to quit the GUI when you're done so you can stop the session from constantly running. I opened a port local8888 previously 
                        and I just closed the tab and did not quit. When I opened another session of Jupyter in the anaconda prompt it says there is another 
                        port being used local8888, "Or the port 8888 is already in use".
                        
conda install pandas    I installed this 


Then the .ipynb files I uploaded first in the Jupyter dashboard. To do this save the .ipynb file in your desired folder and then in the dashboard upper 
right hand corner look for the upload button. Click this and look for the file you need to upload. Then you will find that it comes up in the dashboard. 
You're probably going to click another button to be able to put it in the dashboard. Then you can double click this to open this file. Then start running 
the scripts in the files. Remember than the [*] means the script is still running so don't click run on the next script just yet. 




Anaconda installation 

Anaconda took me probably 3 to 5  minutes to install. It's file size in my pc is not showing. 
installed numpy  - less than one minute
installed pandas - less than one minute

How to start testing
ran first instruction - ok 
second instruction - ok 
third instruction - ok 
fourth instruction - uploaded the .ipynb file in the dashboard first before opening it. 
fifth instruction - I ran it it seems ok; 


Jupyter notebook files to test
File 1 Access_CSV_from_S3 -
ran file 1 Access_CSV_from_S3 - start 13:04, end 13:09  - each script ran


File 2  Data_analysis_examples
Ran file 2 Data_analysis_examples  - start 13:59, end 14:08 each script ran 

File 3 Visualizations examples
my Anaconda doesn't have altair
installed altair at start 14:25, end 14:43 

open the Anaconda prompt and type this: conda install -c conda-forge altair

source: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60997181/theres-no-altair-package-in-my-anaconda-navigator

problem arose while installing altair. Prompt says: 
"EnvironmentNotWritableError: The current user does not have write permissions to the target environment.
  environment location: C:\ProgramData\Anaconda3"

so I opened the anaconda powershell prompt and did this from stackoverflow:

"On Windows, search for Anaconda PowerShell Prompt. Right click the program and select Run as administrator. In the command prompt, execute the following command:

conda update -n base -c defaults conda

Your Anaconda should now update without admin related errors".

Then I opened Anaconda prompt as administrator and typed the same 

conda install -c conda-forge altair

and then this worked. I went back to base and that's probably successful. I did not get an error message.  

Then I opened the notebook via the Anaconda powershell prompt and the dashboard showed the files instead of the folder C:\Windows\System32
instead of the files in CIC folder. But that is probably because the prompt is in (base) C:\Windows\System32> and not (base) C:\Users\Beth>

After fixing this error I now opened through Anaconda prompt and opened jupyter, opened the .ipynb file visualizations and ran the cells
install xxx, xxx, etc that includes altair and this successfully ran. 

Running visualizations start 14:54, end 15:17


File 3 Data visualizations with download 
start 16:28 to 16:32 
Every excel file was downloaded. All the cells ran. 


TESTING PHASE II

I am told there are some incompatibilites that happen when installing gdal, fiona, pyproj, rtree, shapely and geopandas. So there is a possiblity that
I might make an error in installation so I will need to uninstall all those dependencies (dependencies refer to gdal, fiona etc. what I mentioned
earlier). If I am going to uninstall one of those dependencies I found this script in stackoverflow: 

If using conda: if for example you're going to uninstall numpy

conda remove --force numpy 

if using the pip tool in anaconda make sure anaconda has the pip tool check it using script  conda list

pip uninstall numpy

source: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53754479/how-to-uninstall-a-single-packages-in-anaconda


installation of geopandas with dependencies start 21:00to 21:41

Read the instructions
Downloaded the binaries of geopandas from Gohlke's library
GDAL  - download time 7 sec
pyproj - 7 sec
Fiona - 3 sec
rtree - 3 sec
shapely - 3 sec
geopandas - 2 sec

Installation using pip install 
GDAL - install time  5 sec    - installation ok
Fiona - 4 sec  - installation ok
pyproj - 3 sec - installation ok
rtree - 2 sec -  already installed
Rtree installation came out with this message: 
"Rtree is already installed with the same version as the provided wheel. Use --force-reinstall to force an installation of the wheel."

I didn't do anything for rtree because it is already installed. 

shapely - 2 sec  -installation ok
geopandas - 3 sec - installation ok


Testing was done if geopandas is working
open Anaconda prompt
Type python to get to python 
from a python interpreter type 
>>>import geopandas as gpd
then type 
>>>help(gpd)
if package contents are listed then you successfully installed geopandas. 


Testing the ipynb files
File 1 Test_cloudfront_data_access,  start 22:05  to 22:21
took a while to run the cell --> loading EEZ data using pandas and printing number of records (maybe 5 to 6 minutes) (This is under load EEZ data from S3...section)
took a while to run the cell--> Loading LME data using pandas and printing number of records 
(7 minutes) (This is under Load LME data from S3 based on fishing entity selection)
All the cells ran successfully


3. Test_geopandas_shape_files 
start 23:50, end 23:55 
had problem with uploading the file in jupyter. It seems to have hanged. It seems to be not responding anymore so I shutdown the kernel and restarted a new notebook from a new prompt and it worked, I was able to upload the file. 

tested test_geopandas_shapefile successfully

Tested  test_folium_maps file 
Anaconda has no folium library 
installed folium through conda  --> conda install -c conda-forge folium
encountered another error because I am not installing as administrator. So I installed it again. 
installation took 10 seconds.

Rememeber to install as administrator by opening Anaconda prompt as administrator. Right click that icon to find the "run as administrator" option. 



  













